# Pandas_Project
Analyze Supermarket data across the Country- Company XYZ
I began my project by importing useful libraries and other tools to enable me load the datasets, all datasets were merge in a file using the concat function to enable efficient data exploration. All information about the dataset was gotten using different different Attributes to get a better understanding of how the dataset was structured. A few data manipulation was done using different methods such as converting datatypes to its correct format, extracting features from data and time, getting the number of unique values and generation of unique values in the categorical columns. Groupby and Aggregate functions were also used to determine the gross income of each city and to know the city with the highest gross income. A better understanding and insight regarding the data from all . three branches was gotten via visualiaztion using seaborn visualization via different plotting methods.
Visualization of the dataset revealed the branch with the highest sales record which is 'Lagos', the most used payment method which is Epay for both Abuja and Lagos branch, then cash for Portharcourt branch. The highest sold product line is fashionn accessories while the lowest sold product line is Health and beauty. Epay and cash were the most used payment channel used by customers to pay for each product line, epay being the most used between the two. Abuja branch has the lowest rating amongst the three branches. Fashion accessories is the most expensive of all products while Electronic accessories is the least expensive, Also, people tend to spend more on Fashion accessories despite it's high price.
I would include more robust visualization to gain more insight, I would also include statistical tools such as linear regression to predict future sales and outcome.
I used a different method to load the datasets from my directory. I  also used the corr() method to determine the relationship between two columns(variables) which gave gave insight on how one variable affect the other.
This project was done on company XYZ with 3 major branches across the country to analyze the data and to help the company understands sales trend and determine it's growth. People tend to spend more on fashion accessories, Hence, company XYZ should invest more in fashion accessories. Awareness programs/campaigns health products would improve the sales of health and beauty products. Also, company XYZ should consider the provision of discount prices for customers that buys more goods, this will increase the number of customers and in turn increase the number of sales and gross income at large.
